feat(post): ✨ IPFS-companion MV3 update blog post. (#637)
ipfs/ipfs-blog: src/_blog/2023-ipfs-companion-MV3-update.md

- A better rollout strategy and feature-flagging capabilities would have helped testing changes in the wild, but this is not possible with the current extension ecosystem. The only way to test changes is to publish them on the main channel and hope that the users report issues. This is not ideal, as it can lead to a bad user experience and a lot of frustration. Transition from MV2 to MV3 was even more challenging as Chrome Webstore would not allow downgrade from MV3 to MV2 in case a faulty release went out. It had to be perfect the first time, otherwise the users would be stuck with a broken extension until the next release.

## Current status

> MV3 changes went live towards the end of September when the collector-branch was merged to main and released on both the [chrome webstore](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ipfs-companion/nibjojkomfdiaoajekhjakgkdhaomnch) and [firefox add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ipfs-companion/) we've not seen any major issues so far. The extension is working as expected and the user base is consistent. There were some minor regressions and bugs reported, but nothing that's a show-stopper. Those are being fixed as they are reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MV3 changes went live towards the end of September 2023 when the collector-branch was merged to main and released on both the [Chrome Web Store](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ipfs-companion/nibjojkomfdiaoajekhjakgkdhaomnch) and [Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ipfs-companion/) we've not seen any major issues so far. The extension is working as expected and the user base is consistent. There were some minor regressions and bugs reported, but nothing that's a show-stopper. Those are being fixed as they are reported.
```

## What's next?

> The next step will be to implement the [new Brave APIs](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion/issues/1281) which allows for finer control of the IPFS node provided in the Brave Browser. This will provide a much polished experience for the users of Brave Browser. There are also plans to implement a [Helia based gateway](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion/issues/1284) on which some progress has already been made as proof-of-concepts in [helia-service-worker-gateway](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/helia-service-worker-gateway) and [helia-http-gateway](https://github.com/ipfs/helia-http-gateway). The learnings from these projects will be used to implement a gateway that can be used by IPFS-Companion to host an IPFS node in the browser, which will allow users to access IPFS resources when not running a local node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step will be to implement the [new Brave APIs](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion/issues/1281) to allow for finer control of the IPFS node provided in the Brave Browser. This will provide a much polished experience for the users of Brave Browser that also want to enable IPFS Companion extension for additional UI and more file-grained control over redirects. There are also plans to experiment with a [Helia based built-in gateway](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion/issues/1284) on which some progress has already been made as proof-of-concepts in [helia-service-worker-gateway](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/helia-service-worker-gateway) and [helia-http-gateway](https://github.com/ipfs/helia-http-gateway). The learnings from these projects will be used to work with browser vendors to close API gaps and eventually implement a gateway that can be used by IPFS Companion to host an IPFS node in the browser extension itself, which will allow users to access IPFS resources when not running a local node.
```
